<!--
Copyright (c) 2018 YCSB contributors. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You
may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License. See accompanying
LICENSE file.
-->
## Installing Druid

There is a tutorial on setting up druid available on their [official homepage][druid-tutorial]

Druid depends on Zookeeper to coordinate the cluster.

[druid-tutorial]: http://druid.io/docs/0.11.0/tutorials/quickstart.html

## YCSB Integration

The YCSB binding requires the following properties when interacting with druid:

- `zookeeperIp` **IP / hostname of the Zookeeper**:
 This must be a valid hostname identifier or IP.

- `queryIp` **IP / hostname of a queryable druid node**:
 This must be a valid hostname identifier, domain or IP.
 Connections here are made using HTTP.
 The binding does currently not support HTTPS.

- `insertStart` **time in milliseconds**:
 For reasons unknown to the author, druid requires timestamps to be later than a certain date.
 To that end, the YCSB-provided timestamps, which are **offsets** from the starting timestamp must be transposed by that starting timestamp.

- `insertEnd` **time in milliseconds**:
 The end range of the timestamps expected to be generated by the Workload.
 Reasons are as outlined above.

- `timeResolution` **integer "time range"**:
 The current implementation of the binding works with intervals.
 As such all values must be given with *two nonequal* timestamp values.
 The YCSB-Workload only provides a single timestamp, which needs to be augmented with an "interval ending".
 That ending is calculated by adding the given `timeResolution` to the timestamp calculated from the workload timestamp and `insertStart`.

Additional options include:

- `zookeeperPort` **exposed port of zookeeper**:
 The port that Zookeeper exposes it's controls on.
 Defaults to 2181.

- `queryPort` **exposed port of queryable node**:
 The port that the queryable node exposes it's query interface on.
 Defaults to 8090.

- `indexService` **index service**:
 The index service for Druid to use.
 Defaults to `overlord`.
 See https://github.com/TSDBBench/Overlord for more information.

- `serviceDiscoveryPath` **Service announcement Zookeeper path**:
 This property should match your druid setup's `druid.discovery.curator.path`.
 For more information, see [Path Configuration][path-config]
 Defaults to `/druid/discovery`.

 [path-config]: http://druid.io/docs/0.11.0/configuration/#Path_Configuration

 - `partitions` **number of partitions**:
 This property can be used to fine-tune druid's storage behavior.
 Defaults to 1.

 - `replicants` **number of replicants**:
 This property defines the replication behaviour of druid.
 Defaults to 1.

 - `doubleSum` **boolean value**:
 This property defines whether Druid must use the slower floating-point arithmetic or can instead use integer artithmetic.
 In both cases, Druid will operate on 64-bit datatypes.
 Defaults to `true`.

- `debug` **enable debug logging**:
 Verbose debug information is logged by the ycsb-binding.

- `test` **test run**:
 If set to true, the ycsb-binding will build (and possibly log) queries but not execute them.

 ## YCSB Runs

The binding supports only timestamp workloads.
If non-timestamp-workloads are used, the binding is highly likely to not work.

Before each `run`-phase, the `load` phase **must** be executed.
If not, the binding will not work, because the information by how much timestamps need to be offset (see `insertStart`) is removed after starting the `run` phase.
This also means that the binding may behave incorrectly when splitting a workload between mutltiple YCSB-clients.

```bash
bin/ycsb load druid -P workload/tsworkloada -P druid.properties
bin/ycsb run druid -P workload/tsworkloada -P druid.properties
```
